So here, we have a slightly more complex program.
This program declares a vector of strings called brothers.
This is my brothers David, Ethan, and Adam.
Then we iterate over this vector and output the name of each of the brothers.
If we run this,
let me make sure I'm in the right directory, g++ hello.cpp./a.out.
So we say hello to David, Ethan, and Adam.
What I would like to do now is try and debug this program,
just to inspect what's going on on each line.
So you might think I could come up here and start debugging, but in fact,
Visual Studio Code is only set up out of the box to debug
Node.js which is not helpful for us as C++ developers.
So I'm going to come to the extensions directory and search for
C++ and I see the Microsoft C++ extension which is what I want to install.
So now I've installed that.
I'm going to come back to hello.cpp and I'm going to try and debug again.
Now I'm able to debug C++.
When I start debugging I get nothing.
Let's try coming to the debug option here and select my environment.
Nothing happens.
Here in the bottom right corner I see an error.
Please first open a folder to do advanced debug configuration.
So I'm going to actually have to put hello.cpp in its own folder.
So let's open a folder.
I'm going to create a new folder within my temp directory called Hello.
Then I'm going to click okay.
Now I have this blank folder called Hello.
I'm going to move
my hello.cpp file which was in the temp directory into this temp Hello directory.
So now I see I have hello.cpp all over again.
Let's try just compiling it and running it here to make sure everything still works.
All right. Now let's try debugging it.
Let's say we want to stop at this breakpoint.
That's how we set a breakpoint,
is we put this red dot here.
Next to the editor on the line that we want to stop the debugger at,
we're going to say start debugging.
Now I get this option for all the different types of debugging configurations.
I'm going to choose g++ build and debug active file.
Actually I'm going to come over here and add a configuration here,
g++ build and debug active file.
So let's say I want to debug a.out.
Let's create
a launch configuration.
Let's delete this and now let's debug.
Let's see. Now we have to load our symbols.
So it's not enough to just compile the file and build a.out.
We need to compile the file with the debug symbols.
So we'll say hello.-g and we will run on that.
Now you see we stop at
standard cout hello brother and we can look at the status of the program.
We have these strings that are my brothers,
the active brother is David.
If we continue to the next breakpoint,
we see the active brother becomes Ethan.
We can just step through the code to add them.
Now we're done. That's an example of how to debug a program.